Let's kind of talk about
the environment of Node.
I scratched the surface about some of the
differences in the browser versus Node.js,
but I really wanna dig
in a little deeper here.
And talk about some of the globals
that we get access to.
Which are gonna be super helpful for
us when we're developing
our apps inside of Node.js.
So like the browser, Node.js does
come with some practical globals for
us in our applications.
Not as many.
If you go to the browser,
anyone ever did window,
and then hit dot and
just go through this list?
That scrollbar's barely moving.
There's a lot of stuff on the window.
So they're not gonna have this
much stuff on the global in Node.
But yeah, there are some globals in
there that we will be talking about.
So some of the ones that I wanted to
mention was literally this thing called
global.
So if I go to Node and
I say console.log(global), I mean,
it's literally called global.
And I execute this in the terminal,
we get this strange looking object
with some crazy stuff on it.
This is just what the terminal, or this is
what Node is representing it as we log it.
But at the end of the day,
it's just an object with some
familiar properties on them.
You've probably heard of clearInterval and
clearTimeout, setTimeout, setInterval.
Those exists in the browser.
And they work pretty much
the same way here as well.
Then you might see some other stuff like
queueMicrotask and setImmediate, and
things like that.
And that has to do with kinda how
the event loop works in Node.js.
Which is something that we
will talk about a little bit.
But we won't really go into
detail about the event loop.
Because I don't think it's that
important when you're learning Node.js.
I do think it is important when
you're trying to get the best out of
Node.js, though.
And you can actually look at other
courses we have on Frontend Masters where
we talk about that.
So, yeah,
you have something called global, here.
That's got some really nice things.
And then if we go back to
our documentation website,
there's this other thing called __dirname,
and then the equivalent filename.
And these two globals are very helpful
because they give you the current
directory name or the current file
name that you're executing in.
So what does that actually mean?
Well, if I go back to my code here and
I console.log(__dirname,
_filename), and I run these,
you can see for the dirname,
it's literally the path to
the folder that I'm in.
It's the directory name relative
to the file that got executed.
And then a filename is the file
that you wrote that variable in.
So this is very helpful.
Because as you'll see, in Node.js,
or any OS level-based language,
you're gonna be interacting
with files quite often.
Whether it's you're uploading an image.
Whether writing to a configuration file.
Or reading a configuration file, or
environment variables, there's just so
many times you're interacting with files,
especially if you're building
a build tool like Webpack.
You're literally only
interacting with files.
So getting these paths right is gonna
be crucial to you being able to develop
those.
So these two globals
are extremely helpful.
We have something called process,
which I probably ague is the most
helpful thing inside of Node.js.
And this is when you start to
understand the power of Node.js
compared to a browser.
Which is also powerful in it own right,
but
you can see just how different they are.
So we go to handy log over here and
we check out the process object and
we log this, I hope I'm not going to wait,
do I wanna log this?
I wonder if it's going to show
anything that I don't wanna show.
I don't know.
Let's see,
there's a lot of stuff on the process,
okay.
So the process,
it's the object where everything
about the environment is stored.
So you'll see what platform,
you're on the version of Node,
different internal things.
One of the most important
things that you'll see is gonna
be environment variables,
which is somewhere on here.
Here we go.
So that's what I didn't wanna show,
is those environment rebels.
So you gonna see global environment
variables that are exposed on
your computer.
Which is super helpful when you're
deploying a server or something like that.
Because you don't wanna have your
secrets out in your GitHub repo and
really tick someone off at your company.
You wanna put those somewhere in an
environment and have them be injected in.
And you access those environment
variables through the process.
So if you've ever like written some
React thing somewhere and they had you
process.env.something, and you really
know what that was, that's what this is.
You're reading the process from
the environment that the built tool that's
processing your React is running in.
So, yeah, that was pretty meta.
But yes, your build tools run in Node and
they process your frontend
before the browser sees them.
And because they are in Node,
they have access to the process,
which gives them access to
the environment variables.
And that's how you're able to embed
different environment variables inside of
a frontend app before it
gets deployed to a website.
That's it, so
a lot of cool stuff here on the process.
And we'll be talking a little
more about that later.
And then you have these
things with modules.
And we're gonna get some modules,
because right now modules are in
a exciting phase in Node.js.
And we're gonna be using
the latest version of the modules.
But I do wanna talk about the few here.
So we have exports, we have module,
and we have require.
And these are globals
that are gonna used for,
I would say,
the old module syntax inside of Node.js.
And like I said,
we're gonna talk about it more.
But it's nice to know what these are.
And we're gonna dive in.
But yeah,
you're gonna see this a lot in Node.js.
They get injected into the environment for
you.
You don't have to worry about
importing them or anything like that.
They're just there available.
And they're used so you can create
your own modules and expose them and
share them.
And deploy them, publish them,
whatever you want.
So, yes,
we're gonna check those out as well.
And then like I said,
there's really just a lot of stuff in the
global space that we didn't talk about.
I put a link here to the documentation
website that goes over all the stuff.
Because, just like the browser,
you don't need to know
everything that's on the window.
Just like you don't need
to know all of this stuff.
You're probably won't even
use half of it to be honest.
Especially if you're using
the new module syntax,
you won't even use a lot of this stuff.
And you most likely will be
using packages that you install,
which we also are going to cover.
Any questions on globals and
global objects and
variables inside of the Node.js runtime?